So we learned about the redux persist library in the last lesson.
But now we are actually going to implement and use it inside of our application.
So the first thing that we need to do is we need to bring the redux persist library into our application
and we simply do it by saying yawn odd redux persist.
Now critics persist is really cool because it lets us leverage either local storage or session storage
very easily from the package we just installed and it's got a little bit of some setup and configuration
that we have to do.
But it's nothing too daunting.
All we need to do is we need to go to our storage yes file and make some modifications so right now
all we're exporting out is our store.
And as you remember it is just a combination of our route reducer and our Middleware is now what we're
going to do is we're also going to import in our new redux persist bringing in the persist store function
from reflux persist.
Now what this does is it allows our browser to actually cache our store now depending on certain configuration
options that we're going to set but all you need to understand first inside of this store guess is that
we're bringing in this persist store and what we're doing is we're exporting the store out but we're
also going to export out this new thing called a persistent and all this thing does is it calls our
persist store passing in our store so this persists or is essentially a persisted version of our store
and using this and our store is how we will actually create our new provider that's wrapping our application.
If that sounds confusing don't worry it'll make more sense once we actually write all the code but all
we're doing here in our store is we're creating this new persisted version of our store right.
Using this persistent object now that we have this as far as our export default goes we're just going
to return an object right that gives both the store and the persist der
now we'll actually have access to both of these things if we need it but we actually won't really use
it but it's just good for us to write it in case we ever want it now that we have our store.
J ust updated we need to actually update our route reducer inside of our route reducer.
We're gonna import in persist reducer because we persist our store before but now we want to persist
our reducer so we're gonna import persist reducer from redux persist.
And we're going to also import in the type of storage we want if we say import storage from redux persists.
Slash lib slash storage what we'll get here is the actual local storage object on our window browser.
So this is essentially telling a X persist.
I want to use local storage as my default storage.
Alternatively you can also import session storage which is from a different package link.
So these are just representative of the folders that we need to go into in order to get such in storage
a camera off the top of my head what the actual session storage library is.
But you can find it very easily inside of the redux persist stocks that I have linked in the resources
but what we want to use is just the regular storage.
So this is perfectly fine for us.
And what we do with this is we have to define a new persist config.
So this is pretty much just the Jason object that represents the possible configurations that we want
for redux persist to use as I mentioned.
It's just an object and we need to tell it the key.
So our key is root essentially meaning at what point inside of our reducer object do we want to start
storing everything and we want to start from the root then we want to pass storage in as storage.
So this will say the storage key goes to whatever the storage object from redux persist we're trying
to use this.
And then finally we can pass in this whitelist property and this property is an array containing the
string names of any of the reducer that we want to store.
So here we have two user and cart.
But of course our user is being handled by firebase authentication.
So there's no reason for us to actually persist this.
Instead all we want to persist is the cart.
So we're just gonna pass in a string that says cart which lets redux persist.
That the only thing we want to white list I E the only reducer that we actually want to persist is the
cart.
Now if in the future we added more and more reduces to our combined producer's call and we wanted to
actually pass system as well we would just throw the new key in after our cart inside of this white
array.
So it's very simple just like that.
Now I know there was a couple of configuration things we had to do which might seem a little odd but
this is really just how we have to use it after this.
What we need to do is we have to actually call this our route reducer because we have to wrap this inside
of our new persist reduce our call what we were explaining before we're now setting as this route reducer
and what we're going to export as the default instead is calling this persist reducer as a function
passing in both our persist config as well as our route reducer so this will return back out of this
function now.
And what we're explaining by default as well this modified version of our route reducer with this persist
config on top of it.
So it's a modified version of our route reducer except now with persistence capabilities.
Thanks to this persist reduce or function that we got from redux persist finally inside of our index
J Yes we just need to now actually bring in the actual persist or that we need as well as the component
that will leverage inside of our application that will give it the context of our new persisted reducer
so what we need to do is import in this new component called persist gate from redux persist slash integration
slash reactive of course redux persist.
You might be wondering why is there a reactive integration.
Well this is because you can actually use this with multiple different platforms to persist exists for
any platform that might leverage redux including RAC native and electron those have their own separate
files that we need to import different things for.
This one is specific for us with react.
So what the persist gate.
We need to actually bring in our new pastor as well as the store.
So from our redux store we just need to make sure that we're also bringing in our sister and then we're
going to wrap our app inside of this persist gate where we now pass into the persist gate the processor
that we wrote inside of our reading store the processor being the persistent version of our store
we want to make sure to wrap our app in this persist gate because what we want to do is have our application
always have access to the persistence flow itself.
What this will do is it will allow the persist gate to actually one receive the store but also fire
off actions that will rehydrate the state whenever our application refreshes.
So he'll see when we go back to our application that you'll see that this is actually still there from
whenever I added it earlier.
So let's add more items in go to our checkout and now when I refresh you'll see that this is still there.
And the reason why is because of these actions that are firing this first persist action coming from
the persist library is checking whether or not anything exists.
And then if it does it will fire off this new action that will say hey I want to rehydrate the state
with whatever it is that we've stored inside of our preferred means of storage and here we'll see that
before our cart was simply just the empty initial state we had.
And after the rehydrate state our car is updated with the things that we wanted to update with.
So this is really great for us because now we're finally able to actually maintain cart state of our
car items across the session.
So this is a great thing about redux persist and Redux as a whole.
It lets us leverage local storage in order to gain access to this powerful feature of being able to
persist our applications state across sessions and across tabs.
So this is a great feature for us and it's really necessary in an e-commerce platform.
And I know there was quite a bit of configuration here that we had to write but this is simply all we
need to do just to use it.
Now of course if you want to see what other configurations you can add for your own needs in the future
when you join any team with an application that's using redux you can always look at the docs that I've
linked in your resources so let's move on with our next lesson.